docs/source/reference/api-server/examples/high-availability.rst, before:

.. _high-availability-controller:

=========================================
High Availability Controller
=========================================

Overview
--------
By default, the controller for both Managed Jobs and Sky Serve runs as a single instance (either a VM or a Kubernetes Pod). If this instance fails due to node issues, pod crashes, or other unexpected events, the controller plane becomes unavailable, impacting service management capabilities until the controller is manually recovered or relaunched.

To enhance resilience and ensure controller plane continuity, we offer a high availability mode for the controller, which automatically recovers from failures.

High availability mode for the controller offers several key advantages:

* **Automated Recovery:** The controller automatically restarts via Kubernetes Deployments if it encounters crashes or node failures.
* **Enhanced Control Plane Stability:** Ensures the control plane remains operational with minimal disruption to management capabilities.
* **Persistent Controller State:** Critical controller state is stored on persistent storage (via PVCs), ensuring it survives pod restarts and node failures.

Prerequisites
-------------
* **Kubernetes Cluster:** high availability mode is **currently only supported when using Kubernetes** as the cloud provider for the controller. You must have a Kubernetes cluster configured for SkyPilot. See :ref:`Kubernetes Setup <kubernetes-setup>` for details.
* **Persistent Kubernetes:** The underlying Kubernetes cluster (control plane and nodes) must be running persistently. If using a local Kubernetes deployment (e.g., Minikube, Kind via ``sky local up``), the machine hosting the cluster must remain online.
* **PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC) Support:** The Kubernetes cluster must be able to provision PersistentVolumeClaims (e.g., via a default StorageClass or one specified in `config.yaml`), as these are required for storing the controller's persistent state.
* **Permissions to create Deployments and PVCs:** The user must have permissions to create Deployments and PVCs in the Kubernetes cluster. This is enabled by default for k8s clusters that are created by ``sky local up``, but on cloud managed k8s clusters, extra permission is required. For GKE, run ``kubectl apply -f ha-rbac.yaml`` on the following YAML:

.. code-block:: yaml

  # ha-rbac.yaml
  apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
  kind: ClusterRole
  metadata:
    name: skypilot-ha-controller-access
  rules:
    - apiGroups: [""]
      resources: ["persistentvolumeclaims"]
      verbs: ["get", "list", "watch", "create", "update", "patch", "delete"]
    - apiGroups: ["apps"]
      resources: ["deployments", "deployments/status"]
      verbs: ["get", "list", "watch", "create", "update", "patch", "delete"]
  ---
  apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
  kind: ClusterRoleBinding
  metadata:
    name: skypilot-ha-controller-access
  subjects:
    - kind: ServiceAccount
      name: skypilot-api-sa
      namespace: skypilot
  roleRef:
    kind: ClusterRole
    name: skypilot-ha-controller-access
    apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io

.. note::
    Currently, high availability mode is only supported for Kubernetes. Support for other clouds (e.g., AWS, GCP, Azure VMs) is under development (see `GitHub PR #7032 <https://github.com/skypilot-org/skypilot/pull/7032>`_).

How to enable high availability mode
-------------------------------------
To enable high availability for the controller, set the ``high_availability`` flag to ``true`` within the ``[jobs,serve].controller`` section of your :ref:`SkyPilot configuration <config-yaml>`:

.. code-block:: yaml
    :emphasize-lines: 4-6,11-13

    jobs:
      controller:
        resources:
          cloud: kubernetes  # High availability mode requires Kubernetes
        high_availability: true

    serve:
      controller:
        resources:
          cloud: kubernetes  # High availability mode requires Kubernetes
        high_availability: true

.. note::
    Enabling or disabling ``high_availability`` only affects **new** controllers. If you have an existing controller (either running or stopped), changing this setting will not modify it. To apply the change, you must first cancel all running jobs, or terminate all services, and then tear down the existing controller using ``sky down <controller-name>``. See `Important considerations`_ below.

.. note::
    While the controller requires Kubernetes for high availability mode, worker cluster for managed jobs and service replicas can still use any cloud or infrastructure supported by SkyPilot.

How it works
------------
When ``high_availability: true`` is set, SkyPilot modifies how the controller is deployed on Kubernetes:

The high availability implementation relies on standard Kubernetes mechanisms to ensure controller resilience:

* **Automatic Recovery:** The controller runs as a Kubernetes Deployment that automatically restarts pods after failures.
* **Persistent State:** Critical controller state (database, configuration) is stored on persistent storage that persists on pod restarts.
* **Seamless Continuation:** When a new pod starts after a failure, it automatically reconnects to existing resources and continues operations without manual intervention.

.. note::
    For Sky Serve, while the controller itself recovers automatically, the service endpoint availability is primarily managed by the load balancer. Currently, the load balancer runs alongside the controller. If the node hosting both fails, the service endpoint may experience a brief downtime during the recovery process. Decoupling the load balancer from the controller for even higher availability is under active development (see `GitHub PR #4362 <https://github.com/skypilot-org/skypilot/pull/4362>`_). Once decoupled, if the controller pod/node fails, an independently running load balancer could continue to hold incoming traffic and route it to healthy service replicas, further improving service endpoint uptime during controller failures.

The entire recovery process is handled transparently by SkyPilot and Kubernetes, requiring no action from users when failures occur.

.. figure:: ../../../images/sky-serve-ha-architecture.png
    :width: 600
    :alt: Architecture Diagram

    The high availability architecture for SkyServe.

Configuration details
---------------------
Besides the main ``[jobs,serve].controller.high_availability: true`` flag, you can customize high availability behavior further:

*   **Controller Resources** (``[jobs,serve].controller.resources``):
    As usual, you can specify ``cloud`` (must be Kubernetes for now), ``region``, ``cpus``, etc.
    The ``disk_size`` here directly determines the size of the PersistentVolumeClaim
    created for the high availability controller.

    For example, to set the controller's disk size (which determines the PVC size
    in high availability mode when ``[jobs,serve].controller.high_availability`` is true):

    .. code-block:: yaml
        :emphasize-lines: 4

        jobs:
          controller:
            resources:
              disk_size: 100     # Example: 100Gi for the PVC
              cloud: kubernetes  # Must be kubernetes for HA controller
              # cpus: 2+         # Other optional resources
            high_availability: true # Must be true for HA mode

*   **Kubernetes Storage Class** (``kubernetes.high_availability.storage_class_name`` - Optional):
    If your Kubernetes cluster has specific storage classes defined (e.g., for different
    performance tiers like SSD vs HDD, or specific features like backup), you can specify
    which one to use for the controller's PVC. This is configured under the
    ``kubernetes`` section in ``config.yaml``.

    To specify a storage class for the controller's PVC:

    .. code-block:: yaml

        kubernetes:
          # ... other kubernetes settings ...
          high_availability:
            # Optional: Specify the StorageClass name for the controller's PVC
            storage_class_name: <your-storage-class-name> # e.g., premium-ssd

    .. note::
        Different storage classes offer varying performance (IOPS, throughput),
        features (snapshots, backups), and costs. If your cluster provides multiple
        options and you have specific requirements for the controller's storage
        (e.g., needing faster disk I/O or a particular backup strategy), you can
        specify a storage class. If omitted, the default storage class configured
        in your Kubernetes cluster will be used.

Important considerations
------------------------
* **Currently Kubernetes Only:** This feature relies entirely on Kubernetes mechanisms (Deployments, PVCs) and is only available when the controller's specified ``cloud`` is ``kubernetes``. Support for other clouds (AWS, GCP, Azure VMs) is under development.
* **Persistent K8s Required:** The high availability mechanism depends on the Kubernetes cluster itself being available. Ensure your K8s control plane and nodes are stable.
* **No Effect on Existing Controllers:** Setting ``high_availability: true`` in ``config.yaml`` will **not** convert an existing non-high availability controller (running or stopped) to high availability mode, nor will setting it to ``false`` convert an existing high availability controller to non-high availability. You must tear down the existing controller first (``sky down <controller-name>`` after terminating all services) for the new setting to apply when the controller is next launched.
* **Inconsistent State Error:** If you attempt to submit a new job (``sky jobs launch``) or launch a service (``sky serve up``) and the ``high_availability`` setting in your ``config.yaml`` *conflicts* with the actual state of the existing controller cluster on Kubernetes (e.g., you enabled high availability in config, but the controller exists as a non-high availability Pod, or vice-versa), SkyPilot will raise an ``InconsistentHighAvailabilityError``. To resolve this, cancel all running jobs or terminate all services, tear down the controller (``sky down <controller-name>``), and then run ``sky jobs launch`` or ``sky serve up`` again with the desired consistent configuration.

Recovery example for SkyServe
------------------------------
This example demonstrates the automatic recovery capability of the high availability controller for Sky Serve:

1.  **Preparatory Steps (Ensure Clean State & Correct Config):**

    * **Terminate Existing Controller** (if any):

      * First, ensure **no services are running**. Terminate them with ``sky serve down <service_name>`` or ``sky serve down --all``.
      * Find the controller name:

        .. code-block:: bash

            sky status | grep sky-serve-controller

    * Terminate and purge the controller (replace ``<sky-serve-controller-name>`` with the name you found above):

      .. code-block:: bash

          sky down <sky-serve-controller-name>

    * **Set Configuration:** First, ensure your ``~/.sky/config.yaml`` enables high availability mode as shown in the `How to enable high availability mode`_ section.

      .. code-block:: yaml
          :caption: ~/.sky/config.yaml (relevant part)

          serve:
            controller:
              resources:
                cloud: kubernetes
              high_availability: true

2.  **Prepare Configuration Files:**

    * **Service Definition** (e.g., ``http_service.yaml``): Use a simple HTTP service.

      .. code-block:: yaml
        :caption: http_service.yaml

        service:
          readiness_probe: / # Default path for http.server
          replicas: 1

        resources:
          ports: 8080
          cpus: 1 # Minimal resources

        run: python3 -m http.server 8080 --bind 0.0.0.0

      You can also use the ``http_server.yaml`` from the `examples/serve/http_server/task.yaml <https://github.com/skypilot-ai/skypilot/blob/main/examples/serve/http_server/task.yaml>`_ file.

3.  **Launch the Service**:

    .. code-block:: bash

      sky serve up -n my-http-service http_service.yaml
      # This will launch the new high availability controller based on your config.

4.  **Wait and Verify the Service**: Wait until the service status becomes ``READY``.

    .. code-block:: bash

      watch sky serve status my-http-service
      # Wait for STATUS to become READY

      # Get the endpoint URL
      ENDPOINT=$(sky serve status my-http-service --endpoint)
      echo "Service endpoint: $ENDPOINT"

      # Verify the service is rnvesponding correctly
      curl $ENDPOINT
      # Should see the default HTML output from http.server

5.  **Simulate Controller Failure** (Manually Delete Pod):
    
    * Find the name of the controller pod. Controller pods typically contain "sky-serve-controller" and have the label ``skypilot-head-node=1``.

      .. code-block:: bash

        kubectl get pods -l skypilot-head-node=1 | grep sky-serve-controller
        # Copy the controller pod name (e.g., sky-serve-controller-deployment-xxxxx-yyyyy)

        CONTROLLER_POD=<paste_controller_pod_name_here>

    * Delete the controller pod.

      .. code-block:: bash

        echo "Deleting controller pod: $CONTROLLER_POD"
        kubectl delete pod $CONTROLLER_POD

6.  **Observe Recovery**: The Kubernetes Deployment will detect the missing pod and automatically create a new one to replace it.

    .. code-block:: bash

      echo "Waiting for controller pod to recover..."
      # Wait a few seconds for Kubernetes to react
      sleep 15

      # Check that a new pod has started and is running (Status should be Running 1/1)
      kubectl get pods -l skypilot-head-node=1
      # Note the pod name will be different, and STATUS should be Running

7.  **Verify Service Again**: Even though the controller pod was restarted, the service endpoint should remains the same and still be accessible (there might be a brief interruption depending on load balancer and K8s response times).

    .. code-block:: bash

      echo "Re-checking service endpoint: $ENDPOINT"
      curl $ENDPOINT
      # Should still see the http.server output, indicating the service has recovered

This example shows that even if the controller pod terminates unexpectedly, the Kubernetes Deployment mechanism automatically restores it, and thanks to the persisted state (via PVC) and recovery logic, the service continues to operate.

Commit message:

docs: highlight the position of `kubernetes.high_availability.storage_class_name`

docs/source/reference/api-server/examples/high-availability.rst, after:

.. _high-availability-controller:

=========================================
High Availability Controller
=========================================

Overview
--------
By default, the controller for both Managed Jobs and Sky Serve runs as a single instance (either a VM or a Kubernetes Pod). If this instance fails due to node issues, pod crashes, or other unexpected events, the controller plane becomes unavailable, impacting service management capabilities until the controller is manually recovered or relaunched.

To enhance resilience and ensure controller plane continuity, we offer a high availability mode for the controller, which automatically recovers from failures.

High availability mode for the controller offers several key advantages:

* **Automated Recovery:** The controller automatically restarts via Kubernetes Deployments if it encounters crashes or node failures.
* **Enhanced Control Plane Stability:** Ensures the control plane remains operational with minimal disruption to management capabilities.
* **Persistent Controller State:** Critical controller state is stored on persistent storage (via PVCs), ensuring it survives pod restarts and node failures.

Prerequisites
-------------
* **Kubernetes Cluster:** high availability mode is **currently only supported when using Kubernetes** as the cloud provider for the controller. You must have a Kubernetes cluster configured for SkyPilot. See :ref:`Kubernetes Setup <kubernetes-setup>` for details.
* **Persistent Kubernetes:** The underlying Kubernetes cluster (control plane and nodes) must be running persistently. If using a local Kubernetes deployment (e.g., Minikube, Kind via ``sky local up``), the machine hosting the cluster must remain online.
* **PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC) Support:** The Kubernetes cluster must be able to provision PersistentVolumeClaims (e.g., via a default StorageClass or one specified in `config.yaml`), as these are required for storing the controller's persistent state.
* **Permissions to create Deployments and PVCs:** The user must have permissions to create Deployments and PVCs in the Kubernetes cluster. This is enabled by default for k8s clusters that are created by ``sky local up``, but on cloud managed k8s clusters, extra permission is required. For GKE, run ``kubectl apply -f ha-rbac.yaml`` on the following YAML:

.. code-block:: yaml

  # ha-rbac.yaml
  apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
  kind: ClusterRole
  metadata:
    name: skypilot-ha-controller-access
  rules:
    - apiGroups: [""]
      resources: ["persistentvolumeclaims"]
      verbs: ["get", "list", "watch", "create", "update", "patch", "delete"]
    - apiGroups: ["apps"]
      resources: ["deployments", "deployments/status"]
      verbs: ["get", "list", "watch", "create", "update", "patch", "delete"]
  ---
  apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
  kind: ClusterRoleBinding
  metadata:
    name: skypilot-ha-controller-access
  subjects:
    - kind: ServiceAccount
      name: skypilot-api-sa
      namespace: skypilot
  roleRef:
    kind: ClusterRole
    name: skypilot-ha-controller-access
    apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io

.. note::
    Currently, high availability mode is only supported for Kubernetes. Support for other clouds (e.g., AWS, GCP, Azure VMs) is under development (see `GitHub PR #7032 <https://github.com/skypilot-org/skypilot/pull/7032>`_).

How to enable high availability mode
-------------------------------------
To enable high availability for the controller, set the ``high_availability`` flag to ``true`` within the ``[jobs,serve].controller`` section of your :ref:`SkyPilot configuration <config-yaml>`:

.. code-block:: yaml
    :emphasize-lines: 4-6,11-13

    jobs:
      controller:
        resources:
          cloud: kubernetes  # High availability mode requires Kubernetes
        high_availability: true

    serve:
      controller:
        resources:
          cloud: kubernetes  # High availability mode requires Kubernetes
        high_availability: true

.. note::
    Enabling or disabling ``high_availability`` only affects **new** controllers. If you have an existing controller (either running or stopped), changing this setting will not modify it. To apply the change, you must first cancel all running jobs, or terminate all services, and then tear down the existing controller using ``sky down <controller-name>``. See `Important considerations`_ below.

.. note::
    While the controller requires Kubernetes for high availability mode, worker cluster for managed jobs and service replicas can still use any cloud or infrastructure supported by SkyPilot.

How it works
------------
When ``high_availability: true`` is set, SkyPilot modifies how the controller is deployed on Kubernetes:

The high availability implementation relies on standard Kubernetes mechanisms to ensure controller resilience:

* **Automatic Recovery:** The controller runs as a Kubernetes Deployment that automatically restarts pods after failures.
* **Persistent State:** Critical controller state (database, configuration) is stored on persistent storage that persists on pod restarts.
* **Seamless Continuation:** When a new pod starts after a failure, it automatically reconnects to existing resources and continues operations without manual intervention.

.. note::
    For Sky Serve, while the controller itself recovers automatically, the service endpoint availability is primarily managed by the load balancer. Currently, the load balancer runs alongside the controller. If the node hosting both fails, the service endpoint may experience a brief downtime during the recovery process. Decoupling the load balancer from the controller for even higher availability is under active development (see `GitHub PR #4362 <https://github.com/skypilot-org/skypilot/pull/4362>`_). Once decoupled, if the controller pod/node fails, an independently running load balancer could continue to hold incoming traffic and route it to healthy service replicas, further improving service endpoint uptime during controller failures.

The entire recovery process is handled transparently by SkyPilot and Kubernetes, requiring no action from users when failures occur.

.. figure:: ../../../images/sky-serve-ha-architecture.png
    :width: 600
    :alt: Architecture Diagram

    The high availability architecture for SkyServe.

Configuration details
---------------------
Besides the main ``[jobs,serve].controller.high_availability: true`` flag, you can customize high availability behavior further:

*   **Controller Resources** (``[jobs,serve].controller.resources``):
    As usual, you can specify ``cloud`` (must be Kubernetes for now), ``region``, ``cpus``, etc.
    The ``disk_size`` here directly determines the size of the PersistentVolumeClaim
    created for the high availability controller.

    For example, to set the controller's disk size (which determines the PVC size
    in high availability mode when ``[jobs,serve].controller.high_availability`` is true):

    .. code-block:: yaml
        :emphasize-lines: 4

        jobs:
          controller:
            resources:
              disk_size: 100     # Example: 100Gi for the PVC
              cloud: kubernetes  # Must be kubernetes for HA controller
              # cpus: 2+         # Other optional resources
            high_availability: true # Must be true for HA mode

*   **Kubernetes Storage Class** (``kubernetes.high_availability.storage_class_name`` - Optional):
    If your Kubernetes cluster has specific storage classes defined (e.g., for different
    performance tiers like SSD vs HDD, or specific features like backup), you can specify
    which one to use for the controller's PVC. **Note:** This is configured under the
    ``kubernetes`` section in ``config.yaml``, not as a top-level ``high_availability`` section.

    To specify a storage class for the controller's PVC:

    .. code-block:: yaml

        kubernetes:
          # ... other kubernetes settings ...
          high_availability:
            # Optional: Specify the StorageClass name for the controller's PVC
            storage_class_name: <your-storage-class-name> # e.g., premium-ssd

    .. note::
        Different storage classes offer varying performance (IOPS, throughput),
        features (snapshots, backups), and costs. If your cluster provides multiple
        options and you have specific requirements for the controller's storage
        (e.g., needing faster disk I/O or a particular backup strategy), you can
        specify a storage class. If omitted, the default storage class configured
        in your Kubernetes cluster will be used.

Important considerations
------------------------
* **Currently Kubernetes Only:** This feature relies entirely on Kubernetes mechanisms (Deployments, PVCs) and is only available when the controller's specified ``cloud`` is ``kubernetes``. Support for other clouds (AWS, GCP, Azure VMs) is under development.
* **Persistent K8s Required:** The high availability mechanism depends on the Kubernetes cluster itself being available. Ensure your K8s control plane and nodes are stable.
* **No Effect on Existing Controllers:** Setting ``high_availability: true`` in ``config.yaml`` will **not** convert an existing non-high availability controller (running or stopped) to high availability mode, nor will setting it to ``false`` convert an existing high availability controller to non-high availability. You must tear down the existing controller first (``sky down <controller-name>`` after terminating all services) for the new setting to apply when the controller is next launched.
* **Inconsistent State Error:** If you attempt to submit a new job (``sky jobs launch``) or launch a service (``sky serve up``) and the ``high_availability`` setting in your ``config.yaml`` *conflicts* with the actual state of the existing controller cluster on Kubernetes (e.g., you enabled high availability in config, but the controller exists as a non-high availability Pod, or vice-versa), SkyPilot will raise an ``InconsistentHighAvailabilityError``. To resolve this, cancel all running jobs or terminate all services, tear down the controller (``sky down <controller-name>``), and then run ``sky jobs launch`` or ``sky serve up`` again with the desired consistent configuration.

Recovery example for SkyServe
------------------------------
This example demonstrates the automatic recovery capability of the high availability controller for Sky Serve:

1.  **Preparatory Steps (Ensure Clean State & Correct Config):**

    * **Terminate Existing Controller** (if any):

      * First, ensure **no services are running**. Terminate them with ``sky serve down <service_name>`` or ``sky serve down --all``.
      * Find the controller name:

        .. code-block:: bash

            sky status | grep sky-serve-controller

    * Terminate and purge the controller (replace ``<sky-serve-controller-name>`` with the name you found above):

      .. code-block:: bash

          sky down <sky-serve-controller-name>

    * **Set Configuration:** First, ensure your ``~/.sky/config.yaml`` enables high availability mode as shown in the `How to enable high availability mode`_ section.

      .. code-block:: yaml
          :caption: ~/.sky/config.yaml (relevant part)

          serve:
            controller:
              resources:
                cloud: kubernetes
              high_availability: true

2.  **Prepare Configuration Files:**

    * **Service Definition** (e.g., ``http_service.yaml``): Use a simple HTTP service.

      .. code-block:: yaml
        :caption: http_service.yaml

        service:
          readiness_probe: / # Default path for http.server
          replicas: 1

        resources:
          ports: 8080
          cpus: 1 # Minimal resources

        run: python3 -m http.server 8080 --bind 0.0.0.0

      You can also use the ``http_server.yaml`` from the `examples/serve/http_server/task.yaml <https://github.com/skypilot-ai/skypilot/blob/main/examples/serve/http_server/task.yaml>`_ file.

3.  **Launch the Service**:

    .. code-block:: bash

      sky serve up -n my-http-service http_service.yaml
      # This will launch the new high availability controller based on your config.

4.  **Wait and Verify the Service**: Wait until the service status becomes ``READY``.

    .. code-block:: bash

      watch sky serve status my-http-service
      # Wait for STATUS to become READY

      # Get the endpoint URL
      ENDPOINT=$(sky serve status my-http-service --endpoint)
      echo "Service endpoint: $ENDPOINT"

      # Verify the service is rnvesponding correctly
      curl $ENDPOINT
      # Should see the default HTML output from http.server

5.  **Simulate Controller Failure** (Manually Delete Pod):
    
    * Find the name of the controller pod. Controller pods typically contain "sky-serve-controller" and have the label ``skypilot-head-node=1``.

      .. code-block:: bash

        kubectl get pods -l skypilot-head-node=1 | grep sky-serve-controller
        # Copy the controller pod name (e.g., sky-serve-controller-deployment-xxxxx-yyyyy)

        CONTROLLER_POD=<paste_controller_pod_name_here>

    * Delete the controller pod.

      .. code-block:: bash

        echo "Deleting controller pod: $CONTROLLER_POD"
        kubectl delete pod $CONTROLLER_POD

6.  **Observe Recovery**: The Kubernetes Deployment will detect the missing pod and automatically create a new one to replace it.

    .. code-block:: bash

      echo "Waiting for controller pod to recover..."
      # Wait a few seconds for Kubernetes to react
      sleep 15

      # Check that a new pod has started and is running (Status should be Running 1/1)
      kubectl get pods -l skypilot-head-node=1
      # Note the pod name will be different, and STATUS should be Running

7.  **Verify Service Again**: Even though the controller pod was restarted, the service endpoint should remains the same and still be accessible (there might be a brief interruption depending on load balancer and K8s response times).

    .. code-block:: bash

      echo "Re-checking service endpoint: $ENDPOINT"
      curl $ENDPOINT
      # Should still see the http.server output, indicating the service has recovered

This example shows that even if the controller pod terminates unexpectedly, the Kubernetes Deployment mechanism automatically restores it, and thanks to the persisted state (via PVC) and recovery logic, the service continues to operate.
