llm/distributed-eval/README.md, before:

# Distributed Evaluation System

A scalable system for distributed AI model evaluation using SkyPilot. The system automatically discovers and connects game servers for efficient batch processing.

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────┐
│   Eval Head     │  ← Batch inference, auto-discovery
│   (1 node)      │    Web dashboard at :8080
└────────┬────────┘
         │
    ┌────┴────┬──────────┬─────────┐
    ↓         ↓          ↓         ↓
┌─────────┐ ┌─────────┐ ┌─────────┐
│ Game    │ │ Game    │ │ Game    │  ← Simulation servers
│ Server  │ │ Server  │ │ Server  │    Auto-discovered by prefix
└─────────┘ └─────────┘ └─────────┘
```

## Features

- **Auto-Discovery**: Evaluation head automatically discovers game servers by cluster name prefix
- **Real-time Dashboard**: Web-based monitoring at `http://<eval-head-ip>:8080/dashboard`
- **Efficient Batching**: Processes multiple game states in batches for optimal throughput
- **Cost-Optimized**: Game servers run on spot instances for 70-90% cost savings
- **Scalable**: Add/remove game servers dynamically

## Quick Start

### Option 1: With SkyPilot API Server (Recommended for Production)

If you have a centralized SkyPilot API server, the eval head can auto-discover game servers:

```bash
# Launch the evaluation head with API server credentials
export SKYPILOT_API_SERVER_ENDPOINT=https://your-api-server.com
export SKYPILOT_API_SERVER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_TOKEN=your-service-account-token
sky launch -c eval-head configs/eval_head.yaml \
  --env GAME_SERVER_PREFIX=exp-game \
  --secret SKYPILOT_API_SERVER_ENDPOINT \
  --secret SKYPILOT_API_SERVER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_TOKEN

# Get the eval head endpoint for game servers (IP:port format)
EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT=http://$(sky status --endpoint eval-head 8080)

# Launch game servers with eval head endpoint
sky launch -c exp-game-1 configs/game_server.yaml \
  --env EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT=$EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT

sky launch -c exp-game-2 configs/game_server.yaml \
  --env EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT=$EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT
```

The eval head will automatically discover all clusters with the matching prefix through the API server.

### Option 2: Without API Server (Simple Setup)

For local development or simple deployments without auto-discovery:

```bash
# Launch the evaluation head
sky launch -c eval-head configs/eval_head.yaml \
  --env GAME_SERVER_PREFIX=exp-game

# Get the eval head endpoint
EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT=$(sky status --endpoint eval-head 8080)

# Launch game servers with eval head endpoint
sky launch -c exp-game-1 configs/game_server.yaml \
  --env EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT=$EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT

sky launch -c exp-game-2 configs/game_server.yaml \
  --env EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT=$EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT
```

### 3. Monitor the System

1. Check cluster status:
```bash
sky status
```

2. Access the dashboard:
```bash
# Get the eval head endpoint
sky status --endpoint 8080 eval-head

# Open in browser (will show the full URL)
```

## Configuration

### Evaluation Head (`configs/eval_head.yaml`)
- **Resources**: 8+ CPUs, 16+ GB memory (no GPU needed)
- **Ports**: 8080 (dashboard and API)
- **Environment Variables**:
  - `GAME_SERVER_PREFIX`: Prefix for auto-discovering game servers (required)
  - `CHECKPOINT_BUCKET`: S3/GCS bucket for model checkpoints (optional)
- **Secrets** (for API server):
  - `SKYPILOT_API_SERVER_ENDPOINT`: API server URL for cluster discovery
  - `SKYPILOT_API_SERVER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_TOKEN`: Authentication token

### Game Server (`configs/game_server.yaml`)
- **Resources**: 4+ CPUs, 8+ GB memory
- **Spot Instances**: Enabled by default for cost savings
- **Environment Variables**:
  - `EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT`: URL of the evaluation head (required)
- **Auto-connects** to evaluation head using the provided endpoint

## Scaling

### Add More Game Servers
```bash
# Get eval head endpoint
EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT=$(sky status --endpoint 8080 eval-head)

# Launch additional servers
sky launch -c exp-game-N configs/game_server.yaml \
  --env EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT
```

### Remove Game Servers
```bash
sky down exp-game-N
```

### Stop All Clusters
```bash
sky down exp-game-* eval-head
```

## Updating and Restarting

### Restart the Evaluation Head

When you need to update the eval head code or configuration:

```bash
# Cancel the current job without terminating the cluster
sky cancel -ay eval-head

# Execute the new configuration (with API server)
sky exec eval-head configs/eval_head.yaml \
  --env GAME_SERVER_PREFIX=exp-game \
  --secret SKYPILOT_API_SERVER_ENDPOINT \
  --secret SKYPILOT_API_SERVER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_TOKEN

# Or without API server
sky exec eval-head configs/eval_head.yaml \
  --env GAME_SERVER_PREFIX=exp-game
```

This approach:
- Keeps the cluster running (saves time)
- Updates the code from your local workdir
- Restarts the service with new configuration
- Preserves the cluster IP (game servers stay connected)

### Restart Game Servers

Similarly, to restart game servers:

```bash
# Cancel and restart a specific game server
sky cancel -ay exp-game-1
sky exec exp-game-1 configs/game_server.yaml \
  --env EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT=$EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT```

## API Endpoints

The evaluation head exposes the following endpoints:

- `GET /dashboard` - Web monitoring dashboard
- `GET /health` - Health check
- `GET /stats` - Current statistics
- `GET /discovered` - List discovered game servers (requires API server)
- `POST /discover` - Manually trigger discovery
- `POST /evaluate` - Submit game state for evaluation (used by game servers)
- `WebSocket /ws` - Real-time stats updates

## Development

### Running Locally

For local development without SkyPilot:

```bash
# Terminal 1: Start eval head
cd src
python eval_head.py --port 8080

# Terminal 2: Start game server
python game_server.py --port 8081 --eval-head-url http://localhost:8080
```

### Project Structure

```
distributed-eval/
├── configs/
│   ├── eval_head.yaml      # Eval head SkyPilot config
│   └── game_server.yaml    # Game server SkyPilot config
├── src/
│   ├── eval_head.py        # Evaluation head with auto-discovery
│   └── game_server.py      # Game simulation server
├── static/
│   └── dashboard.html       # Web dashboard
└── .sky.yaml.template       # Template for API server configuration
```

## Environment Setup

The configs use `uv` for fast Python package management:
- Automatic virtual environment creation
- Fast dependency installation
- CPU-only PyTorch for the eval head (smaller and faster)

## Cost Optimization

- **Eval Head**: Runs on regular instances for reliability
- **Game Servers**: Run on spot instances (70-90% cheaper)
- **Auto-stop**: Configure with `--down` or set idle timeouts

## Troubleshooting

1. **Game servers not discovered** (when using API server):
   - Verify API server credentials are correct
   - Check that clusters have the correct name prefix
   - Ensure eval head has `.sky.yaml` configured properly
   - Manually trigger discovery in dashboard

2. **Connection issues**:
   - Ensure eval head is running first
   - Verify `EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT` is correctly set
   - Check firewall rules allow port 8080
   - Use `sky status --endpoint` to get the correct URL

3. **Performance issues**:
   - Increase batch size in eval head
   - Add more game servers for parallel processing
   - Check CPU/memory usage in dashboard

## Advanced Usage

See the [advanced/](advanced/) directory for:
- Custom model integration
- Production deployment guides
- Performance tuning
- Monitoring and logging setup

Commit message:

Add services to the eval head

llm/distributed-eval/README.md, after:

# Distributed Evaluation System

A scalable system for distributed AI model evaluation using SkyPilot. The system automatically discovers and connects game servers for efficient batch processing.

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────┐
│   Eval Head     │  ← Batch inference, auto-discovery
│   (1 node)      │    Web dashboard at :8080
└────────┬────────┘
         │
    ┌────┴────┬──────────┬─────────┐
    ↓         ↓          ↓         ↓
┌─────────┐ ┌─────────┐ ┌─────────┐
│ Game    │ │ Game    │ │ Game    │  ← Simulation servers
│ Server  │ │ Server  │ │ Server  │    Auto-discovered by prefix
└─────────┘ └─────────┘ └─────────┘
```

## Features

- **Auto-Discovery**: Evaluation head automatically discovers game servers by cluster name prefix
- **Real-time Dashboard**: Web-based monitoring at `http://<eval-head-ip>:8080/dashboard`
- **Efficient Batching**: Processes multiple game states in batches for optimal throughput
- **Cost-Optimized**: Game servers run on spot instances for 70-90% cost savings
- **Scalable**: Add/remove game servers dynamically

## Quick Start

### Option 1: With SkyPilot API Server (Recommended for Production)

If you have a centralized SkyPilot API server, the eval head can auto-discover game servers:

```bash
# Launch the evaluation head with API server credentials
export SKYPILOT_API_SERVER_ENDPOINT=https://your-api-server.com
export SKYPILOT_API_SERVER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_TOKEN=your-service-account-token
sky launch -c eval-head configs/eval_head.yaml \
  --env GAME_SERVER_PREFIX=exp-game \
  --secret SKYPILOT_API_SERVER_ENDPOINT \
  --secret SKYPILOT_API_SERVER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_TOKEN

# Get the eval head endpoint for game servers (IP:port format)
EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT=http://$(sky status --endpoint eval-head 8080)

# Launch game servers as clusters
sky launch -c exp-game-1 configs/game_server.yaml \
  --env EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT=$EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT

sky launch -c exp-game-2 configs/game_server.yaml \
  --env EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT=$EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT
```

The eval head will automatically discover all clusters and services with the matching prefix through the API server.

### Option 2: Using SkyServe for Game Servers (Recommended for Reliability)

Deploy game servers as SkyServe services for automatic failover and scaling using the same YAML:

```bash
# Launch the evaluation head first
sky launch -c eval-head configs/eval_head.yaml \
  --env GAME_SERVER_PREFIX=exp-game

# Get the eval head endpoint
EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT=$(sky status --endpoint eval-head 8080)

# Deploy game servers as SkyServe services (with autoscaling and failover)
# Note: Uses the same game_server.yaml - the service field is used by sky serve
sky serve up -n exp-game-svc configs/game_server.yaml \
  --env EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT=$EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT
```

SkyServe provides:
- Automatic failover if a replica fails
- Autoscaling based on load (1-5 replicas)
- Health checks and automatic restarts
- Load balancing across replicas

### Option 3: Without API Server (Simple Setup)

For local development or simple deployments without auto-discovery:

```bash
# Launch the evaluation head
sky launch -c eval-head configs/eval_head.yaml \
  --env GAME_SERVER_PREFIX=exp-game

# Get the eval head endpoint
EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT=$(sky status --endpoint eval-head 8080)

# Launch game servers with eval head endpoint
sky launch -c exp-game-1 configs/game_server.yaml \
  --env EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT=$EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT

sky launch -c exp-game-2 configs/game_server.yaml \
  --env EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT=$EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT
```

### 3. Monitor the System

1. Check cluster status:
```bash
sky status
```

2. Access the dashboard:
```bash
# Get the eval head endpoint
sky status --endpoint 8080 eval-head

# Open in browser (will show the full URL)
```

## Configuration

### Evaluation Head (`configs/eval_head.yaml`)
- **Resources**: 8+ CPUs, 16+ GB memory (no GPU needed)
- **Ports**: 8080 (dashboard and API)
- **Environment Variables**:
  - `GAME_SERVER_PREFIX`: Prefix for auto-discovering game servers (required)
  - `CHECKPOINT_BUCKET`: S3/GCS bucket for model checkpoints (optional)
- **Secrets** (for API server):
  - `SKYPILOT_API_SERVER_ENDPOINT`: API server URL for cluster discovery
  - `SKYPILOT_API_SERVER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_TOKEN`: Authentication token

### Game Server (`configs/game_server.yaml`)
- **Resources**: 4+ CPUs, 8+ GB memory
- **Spot Instances**: Enabled by default for cost savings
- **Environment Variables**:
  - `EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT`: URL of the evaluation head (required)
- **Auto-connects** to evaluation head using the provided endpoint

## Scaling

### Add More Game Servers
```bash
# Get eval head endpoint
EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT=$(sky status --endpoint 8080 eval-head)

# Launch additional servers
sky launch -c exp-game-N configs/game_server.yaml \
  --env EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT
```

### Remove Game Servers
```bash
sky down exp-game-N
```

### Stop All Clusters
```bash
sky down exp-game-* eval-head
```

## Updating and Restarting

### Restart the Evaluation Head

When you need to update the eval head code or configuration:

```bash
# Cancel the current job without terminating the cluster
sky cancel -ay eval-head

# Execute the new configuration (with API server)
sky exec eval-head configs/eval_head.yaml \
  --env GAME_SERVER_PREFIX=exp-game \
  --secret SKYPILOT_API_SERVER_ENDPOINT \
  --secret SKYPILOT_API_SERVER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_TOKEN

# Or without API server
sky exec eval-head configs/eval_head.yaml \
  --env GAME_SERVER_PREFIX=exp-game
```

This approach:
- Keeps the cluster running (saves time)
- Updates the code from your local workdir
- Restarts the service with new configuration
- Preserves the cluster IP (game servers stay connected)

### Restart Game Servers

Similarly, to restart game servers:

```bash
# Cancel and restart a specific game server
sky cancel -ay exp-game-1
sky exec exp-game-1 configs/game_server.yaml \
  --env EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT=$EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT```

## API Endpoints

The evaluation head exposes the following endpoints:

- `GET /dashboard` - Web monitoring dashboard
- `GET /health` - Health check
- `GET /stats` - Current statistics
- `GET /discovered` - List discovered game servers (requires API server)
- `POST /discover` - Manually trigger discovery
- `POST /evaluate` - Submit game state for evaluation (used by game servers)
- `WebSocket /ws` - Real-time stats updates

## Development

### Running Locally

For local development without SkyPilot:

```bash
# Terminal 1: Start eval head
cd src
python eval_head.py --port 8080

# Terminal 2: Start game server
python game_server.py --port 8081 --eval-head-url http://localhost:8080
```

### Project Structure

```
distributed-eval/
├── configs/
│   ├── eval_head.yaml      # Eval head SkyPilot config
│   └── game_server.yaml    # Game server config (works with both sky launch and sky serve)
├── src/
│   ├── eval_head.py        # Evaluation head with auto-discovery
│   └── game_server.py      # Game simulation server
├── static/
│   └── dashboard.html       # Web dashboard
└── README.md                # This file
```

## Environment Setup

The configs use `uv` for fast Python package management:
- Automatic virtual environment creation
- Fast dependency installation
- CPU-only PyTorch for the eval head (smaller and faster)

## Cost Optimization

- **Eval Head**: Runs on regular instances for reliability
- **Game Servers**: Run on spot instances (70-90% cheaper)
- **Auto-stop**: Configure with `--down` or set idle timeouts

## Troubleshooting

1. **Game servers not discovered** (when using API server):
   - Verify API server credentials are correct
   - Check that clusters have the correct name prefix
   - Ensure eval head has `.sky.yaml` configured properly
   - Manually trigger discovery in dashboard

2. **Connection issues**:
   - Ensure eval head is running first
   - Verify `EVAL_HEAD_ENDPOINT` is correctly set
   - Check firewall rules allow port 8080
   - Use `sky status --endpoint` to get the correct URL

3. **Performance issues**:
   - Increase batch size in eval head
   - Add more game servers for parallel processing
   - Check CPU/memory usage in dashboard

## Advanced Usage

See the [advanced/](advanced/) directory for:
- Custom model integration
- Production deployment guides
- Performance tuning
- Monitoring and logging setup
