Quickstart
==========

Sky is a framework to run any workload seamlessly across different cloud providers
through a unified interface. No knowledge of cloud offerings is required or
expected -- you simply define the workload and its resource requirements,
and Sky will automatically execute it on AWS, Google Cloud Platform or Microsoft
Azure.

Key features

- **Run your code on the cloud with zero code changes**
- **Easily provision VMs** across multiple cloud platforms (AWS, Azure or GCP)
- **Easily manage multiple clusters** to handle different projects
- **Quick access** to cloud instances for prototyping
- **Store your datasets on the cloud** and access them like you would on a local file system
- **No cloud lock-in** -- transparently run your code across AWS, Google Cloud, and Azure

Complete the :ref:`installation instructions <installation>` before continuing with this guide.

Provisioning your first cluster
--------------------------------
We'll start by launching our first cluster on Sky using an :ref:`interactive
node <interactive-nodes>`.  Interactive nodes are quick-to-access VMs that are
easy to configure without additional setup.

Let's provision an instance with a single K80 GPU.

.. code-block:: console

  $ # Provisions/reuses an interactive node with a single K80 GPU.
  $ sky gpunode -c mygpu --gpus K80

Provisioning should take a few minutes, after which you're automatically logged in:

.. code-block:: console

  Last login: Wed Feb 23 22:35:47 2022 from 136.152.143.101

  ubuntu@ip-172-31-86-108:~$ gpustat

  ip-172-31-86-108     Wed Feb 23 22:42:43 2022  450.142.00
  [0] Tesla K80        | 31°C,   0 % |     0 / 11441 MB |

Press :code:`Ctrl-D` to log out. On your machine, use :code:`sky status` to query all provisioned clusters:

.. code-block:: console

  $ sky status

  NAME   LAUNCHED        RESOURCES                     COMMAND                          STATUS
  mygpu  a few secs ago  1x Azure(Standard_NC6_Promo)  sky gpunode -c mygpu --gpus K80  UP

To log back in, simply type :code:`ssh mygpu`.

After you are done, run :code:`sky down mygpu` to terminate the cluster. See
:ref:`here <interactive-nodes>` for other types of interactive nodes and
commands that manage the lifecycle of clusters.


Hello, Sky!
-----------
Next, let's define our very first task, a simple hello world program, to be
executed by Sky.  We can specify the following task attributes with a YAML file:

- :code:`resources` (optional): cloud resources the task must be run on (e.g., accelerators, instance type, etc.)
- :code:`workdir` (optional): the working directory containing project code that will be synced to the provisioned instance(s)
- :code:`setup` (optional): commands that must be run before the task is executed
- :code:`run` (optional): commands that run the actual task

.. note::

    For large, multi-gigabyte workdirs (e.g., large datasets in your working
    directory), uploading may be slow the files are synced to the remote VM(s)
    with :code:`rsync`. To exclude large files in your workdir from being uploaded,
    add them to your :code:`.gitignore` file. To upload large datasets and files, consider using :ref:`Sky
    Storage <sky-storage>` to speed up transfers.

Below is a minimal task YAML that prints "hello sky!" and shows installed Conda environments,
requiring an NVIDIA Tesla K80 GPU on AWS. See more example YAML files in the `repository <https://github.com/sky-proj/sky/tree/master/examples>`_ and a fully-complete YAML example :ref:`here <yaml-spec>`.

.. code-block:: yaml

  # hello_sky.yaml

  resources:
    # Optional; if left out, pick from the available clouds.
    cloud: aws
    # 1x NVIDIA V100 GPU
    accelerators: V100:1

  # Working directory (optional) containing the project codebase.
  # This directory will be synced to ~/sky_workdir on the provisioned cluster.
  workdir: .

  # Typical use: pip install -r requirements.txt
  setup: |
    echo "running setup"

  # Typical use: make use of resources, such as running training.
  run: |
    echo "hello sky!"
    conda env list


**To launch a task** based on a YAML spec, use :code:`sky launch`.  This command
performs many heavy-lifting: (1) selects an appropriate cloud and VM based on
the specified resource constraints, (2) provisions (or reuses) a cluster on that
cloud,
(3) uploads the :code:`workdir`, (4) executes the :code:`setup` commands,
and (5) executes the :code:`run` commands.

.. code-block:: console

  $ sky launch -c mycluster hello_sky.yaml

The :code:`-c` option allows us to specify a cluster name. If a cluster with the
same name already exists, Sky will reuse that cluster. If no such cluster
exists, a new cluster with that name will be provisioned. If no cluster name is
provided, (e.g., :code:`sky launch hello_sky.yaml`), a cluster name will be
autogenerated.

**To view existing clusters**, use :code:`sky status`:

.. code-block:: console

  $ sky status

This may show multiple clusters, if you have created several:

.. code-block::

  NAME       LAUNCHED     RESOURCES             COMMAND                                 STATUS
  gcp        1 day ago    1x GCP(n1-highmem-8)  sky cpunode -c gcp --cloud gcp          STOPPED
  mycluster  12 mins ago  1x AWS(p3.2xlarge)    sky launch -c mycluster hello_sky.yaml  UP

**To log into the a cluster**, Sky provides convenient SSH access via :code:`ssh <cluster_name>`:

.. code-block:: console

  $ ssh mycluster

**To transfer files to and from the cluster** after a task's execution, use :code:`rsync` (or :code:`scp`) :

.. code-block:: console

    $ rsync -Pavz /local/path/source mycluster:/remote/dest  # copy to remote VM
    $ rsync -Pavz mycluster:/remote/source /local/dest       # copy from remote VM

**To terminate (or stop) the cluster**, run :code:`sky down mycluster` (for
stopping, run :code:`sky stop mycluster`).  Find more commands that manage the
lifecycle of clusters :ref:`here <interactive-nodes>`.

Sky is more than a tool for easily provisioning and managing multiple clusters
on different clouds.  It also comes with features for :ref:`storing and moving
data <sky-storage>`, :ref:`queueing multiple jobs <job-queue>`, :ref:`iterative
development <iter-dev>`, and :ref:`interactive nodes <interactive-nodes>`.
