docs/source/getting-started/quickstart.rst, before:

==========
Quickstart
==========

This guide will walk you through:

- defining a task in a simple YAML format
- provisioning a cluster and running a task
- using the core Sky CLI commands

Be sure to complete the :ref:`installation instructions <installation>` first before continuing with this guide.

Hello, Sky!
------

Let's define our very first task, a simple Hello, Sky! program.

Create a directory from anywhere on your machine:

.. code-block:: console

  $ mkdir hello-sky
  $ cd hello-sky

Copy the following YAML into a ``hello_sky.yaml`` file:

.. code-block:: yaml

  # hello_sky.yaml

  resources:
    # Optional; if left out, pick from the available clouds.
    cloud: aws
    # 1x NVIDIA V100 GPU
    accelerators: V100:1

  # Working directory (optional) containing the project codebase.
  # Its contents are synced to ~/sky_workdir/ on the cluster.
  workdir: .

  # Typical use: pip install -r requirements.txt
  # Invoked under the workdir (i.e., can use its files).
  setup: |
    echo "Running setup."

  # Typical use: make use of resources, such as running training.
  # Invoked under the workdir (i.e., can use its files).
  run: |
    echo "Hello, Sky!"
    conda env list

This defines a task with the following components:

- :code:`resources`: cloud resources the task must be run on (e.g., accelerators, instance type, etc.)
- :code:`workdir`: the working directory containing project code that will be synced to the provisioned instance(s)
- :code:`setup`: commands that must be run before the task is executed (invoked under workdir)
- :code:`run`: commands that run the actual task (invoked under workdir)

All these fields are optional.

To launch a cluster and run a task, use :code:`sky launch`:

.. code-block:: console

  $ sky launch -c mycluster hello_sky.yaml

.. tip::

  This may take a few minutes for the first run.  Feel free to read ahead on this guide.

.. tip::

  You can use the ``-c`` flag to give the cluster an easy-to-remember name. If not specified, a name is autogenerated.

The ``sky launch`` command performs much heavy-lifting:

- selects an appropriate cloud and VM based on the specified resource constraints;
- provisions (or reuses) a cluster on that cloud;
- syncs up the :code:`workdir`;
- executes the :code:`setup` commands; and
- executes the :code:`run` commands.

In a few minutes, the cluster will finish provisioning and the task will be executed.
The outputs will show ``Hello, Sky!`` and the list of installed Conda environments.

Execute a task on an existing cluster
=====

Once you have an existing cluster, use :code:`sky exec` to execute a task on it:

.. code-block:: console

  $ sky exec mycluster hello_sky.yaml

The ``sky exec`` command is more lightweight; it

- syncs up the :code:`workdir` (so that the task may use updated code); and
- executes the :code:`run` commands.

Provisioning and ``setup`` commands are skipped.

Bash commands are also supported, such as:

.. code-block:: console

  $ sky exec mycluster -- gpustat -i
  $ sky exec mycluster -- ls -l
  $ sky exec mycluster htop


View all clusters
=====
..
   **To view existing clusters**, use :code:`sky status`:

Use :code:`sky status` to view existing clusters:

.. code-block:: console

  $ sky status

This may show multiple clusters, if you have created several:

.. code-block::

  NAME       LAUNCHED     RESOURCES             COMMAND                            STATUS
  gcp        1 day ago    1x GCP(n1-highmem-8)  sky cpunode -c gcp --cloud gcp     STOPPED
  mycluster  4 mins ago   1x AWS(p3.2xlarge)    sky exec mycluster hello_sky.yaml  UP

To log into the a cluster, Sky provides convenient SSH access via :code:`ssh <cluster_name>`:

.. code-block:: console

  $ ssh mycluster

Transfer files
=====

After a task's execution,  use :code:`rsync` (or :code:`scp`) to download files (e.g., checkpoints):

.. code-block:: console

    $ rsync -Pavz mycluster:/remote/source /local/dest  # copy from remote VM

For uploading files to the cluster, see :ref:`Syncing Code and Artifacts`.

Stop/terminate a cluster
=====

When you are done, run :code:`sky stop mycluster` to stop the cluster. To
terminate a cluster instead, run :code:`sky down mycluster`.  Find more commands that
manage the lifecycle of clusters :ref:`here <interactive-nodes>`.

Next steps
------

Congratulations!  In this quickstart, you have launched a cluster, run a task, and interacted with Sky's CLI.

To learn more:

- Adapt :ref:`Tutorial: DNN Training` to run your own project on Sky
- Try :ref:`Interactive Nodes` -- VMs that can be launched in one command without a YAML file
- See a fully complete :ref:`YAML example <yaml-spec>` and more examples in the `repository <https://github.com/sky-proj/sky/tree/master/examples>`_
- Explore the rest of the documentation

Commit message:

Make `sky exec` submit jobs for inline commands as well.

docs/source/getting-started/quickstart.rst, after:

==========
Quickstart
==========

This guide will walk you through:

- defining a task in a simple YAML format
- provisioning a cluster and running a task
- using the core Sky CLI commands

Be sure to complete the :ref:`installation instructions <installation>` first before continuing with this guide.

Hello, Sky!
------

Let's define our very first task, a simple Hello, Sky! program.

Create a directory from anywhere on your machine:

.. code-block:: console

  $ mkdir hello-sky
  $ cd hello-sky

Copy the following YAML into a ``hello_sky.yaml`` file:

.. code-block:: yaml

  # hello_sky.yaml

  resources:
    # Optional; if left out, pick from the available clouds.
    cloud: aws
    # 1x NVIDIA V100 GPU
    accelerators: V100:1

  # Working directory (optional) containing the project codebase.
  # Its contents are synced to ~/sky_workdir/ on the cluster.
  workdir: .

  # Typical use: pip install -r requirements.txt
  # Invoked under the workdir (i.e., can use its files).
  setup: |
    echo "Running setup."

  # Typical use: make use of resources, such as running training.
  # Invoked under the workdir (i.e., can use its files).
  run: |
    echo "Hello, Sky!"
    conda env list

This defines a task with the following components:

- :code:`resources`: cloud resources the task must be run on (e.g., accelerators, instance type, etc.)
- :code:`workdir`: the working directory containing project code that will be synced to the provisioned instance(s)
- :code:`setup`: commands that must be run before the task is executed (invoked under workdir)
- :code:`run`: commands that run the actual task (invoked under workdir)

All these fields are optional.

To launch a cluster and run a task, use :code:`sky launch`:

.. code-block:: console

  $ sky launch -c mycluster hello_sky.yaml

.. tip::

  This may take a few minutes for the first run.  Feel free to read ahead on this guide.

.. tip::

  You can use the ``-c`` flag to give the cluster an easy-to-remember name. If not specified, a name is autogenerated.

The ``sky launch`` command performs much heavy-lifting:

- selects an appropriate cloud and VM based on the specified resource constraints;
- provisions (or reuses) a cluster on that cloud;
- syncs up the :code:`workdir`;
- executes the :code:`setup` commands; and
- executes the :code:`run` commands.

In a few minutes, the cluster will finish provisioning and the task will be executed.
The outputs will show ``Hello, Sky!`` and the list of installed Conda environments.

Execute a task on an existing cluster
=====

Once you have an existing cluster, use :code:`sky exec` to execute a task on it:

.. code-block:: console

  $ sky exec mycluster hello_sky.yaml

The ``sky exec`` command is more lightweight; it

- syncs up the :code:`workdir` (so that the task may use updated code); and
- executes the :code:`run` commands.

Provisioning and ``setup`` commands are skipped.

Bash commands are also supported, such as:

.. code-block:: console

  $ sky exec mycluster python train.py

For interactive/monitoring commands, such as ``htop`` or ``gpustat -i``, use ``ssh`` instead (see below) to avoid job submission overheads.


View all clusters
=====
..
   **To view existing clusters**, use :code:`sky status`:

Use :code:`sky status` to view existing clusters:

.. code-block:: console

  $ sky status

This may show multiple clusters, if you have created several:

.. code-block::

  NAME       LAUNCHED     RESOURCES             COMMAND                            STATUS
  gcp        1 day ago    1x GCP(n1-highmem-8)  sky cpunode -c gcp --cloud gcp     STOPPED
  mycluster  4 mins ago   1x AWS(p3.2xlarge)    sky exec mycluster hello_sky.yaml  UP

To log into the a cluster, Sky provides convenient SSH access via :code:`ssh <cluster_name>`:

.. code-block:: console

  $ ssh mycluster

Transfer files
=====

After a task's execution,  use :code:`rsync` (or :code:`scp`) to download files (e.g., checkpoints):

.. code-block:: console

    $ rsync -Pavz mycluster:/remote/source /local/dest  # copy from remote VM

For uploading files to the cluster, see :ref:`Syncing Code and Artifacts`.

Stop/terminate a cluster
=====

When you are done, run :code:`sky stop mycluster` to stop the cluster. To
terminate a cluster instead, run :code:`sky down mycluster`.  Find more commands that
manage the lifecycle of clusters :ref:`here <interactive-nodes>`.

Next steps
------

Congratulations!  In this quickstart, you have launched a cluster, run a task, and interacted with Sky's CLI.

To learn more:

- Adapt :ref:`Tutorial: DNN Training` to run your own project on Sky
- Try :ref:`Interactive Nodes` -- VMs that can be launched in one command without a YAML file
- See a fully complete :ref:`YAML example <yaml-spec>` and more examples in the `repository <https://github.com/sky-proj/sky/tree/master/examples>`_
- Explore the rest of the documentation
